# Week 2
## Tutorial
### 1. Objectives
 **What is the First Fleet Online**
 * First Fleet OnLine is a resource for students and teachers of any age, professional historians, family tree enthusiasts, descendants of the First Fleeters, and amateur researchers, anywhere in the world. 
 * First Fleet Online consists of information about the convicts who were transported to Australia in 1787. 

 **Why use it**
* First Fleet OnLine is an opportunity for students to experience what it's like to study a university subject in an online environment, without the assignments!
* First Fleet OnLine is also an opportunity for university teachers to explore and discuss a model for design of online subjects

### 2. Learning
**Finding Out About Finding Out**
> 1. QUESTIONS - tune into the problem, identify the issue

> 2. ANSWERS - think of possible answers, make a theory or a hypothesis

>> The questions we choose to ask will usually be based on a theory we are begining to construct in our mind.

> 3. FIND OUT - gather data and evidence
>> To answer the questions, we need to search for evidence that backs up our theories.

> 4. SORT OUT - process and analyse your evidence
>> In real life evidence is often incomplete, particularly with historical data. It is difficult to build up a picture of what actually happened and our view of the data may be coloured by our own modern-day prejudices. Beware also of the prejudices of other historians.

> 5. JUDGE - draw conclusions - what does the data tell us
>> After thinking about evidence carefully, we need to make the best judgement we can make under the circumstances. However all judgements must be argued from the available evidence and any conjectures must be clearly labelled as such.

> 6. REVIEW - was it all worth it? was there a better question we could ask?
>> At all stages in the process we should sit back and reflect on what we've been doing, reviewing whether there might be a better theory to match our evidence or whether we have enough evidence to make a judgement. 

### 3. Investigating
To start investigating a new subject, we need to pose questions.

The art of framing questions is a very important skill - questions need to be framed in such a way that answering them becomes possible. We'll need to decide whether the question can be answered by the Database or whether we'll have to research other resources, such as those in Stories and Links.

Menu:
> * How did the First Fleet get to Australia?
> * Who came to Australia?
> * What was life like in the new settlement?
> * Who was the youngest convict?
> * Interesting Mysteries...
> * How Useful is a History Database?

### 4. Searching
This section contains a searchable database of 780 First Fleet convicts. It does not contain information about the other 200 sailors, marines and officers who sailed with them. There are three ways this data can be searched.


Searching the database involves you framing a search request. More about how to frame questions and hypotheses for the search request can be found in the Learning section and sample questions can be found in the Investigating section.
> 1. **Simple Search**

> 2. **Advanced Search**
>> An advanced search enables the convict data to be queried about age, gender, occupation, crime, value of crime, sentence, transported for, date and place of trial, partner in crime, description of looks and behaviour, date of leaving the colony, or date of death, and details about marriage and children.

> 3. **Download the data**

 contexts : boundaries, social boundaries, religious boundaries, values, social values, cultural values, etc. social circumstances, political circumstances.

## Activity 3
> Discuss the kind of data that may be collected as you (passively and/or actively) use your phone.
>> 1. Who is collecting this data, and why?
>>> Data users, such as telecommunication company, for billing, make different plans to meet clients' satisfactory; Google, keep information of clients, alterting, virtual secretary.

>> 2. In what ways is this data likely to be associated with you as an individual, and in what ways might it be associated with you as part of some aggregate entity?
>>> * It provides chooses, data guide you to make decisions which are company's expected.
>>> * It provides the status of traffic, track interesting activities.

>> 3. What (if any) rights do you have to access this data – or, indeed, to prevent its collection?
>>> transparency. no. 

>> 4. What are the personal benefits (and/or costs?) of data being collected in this way?
>>> choices, financial, better sales, sense of belong, sense of success.

> What other artifacts do you carry on or near your person that similarly record and/or transmit data? How do these compare to your phone in terms of the questions asked above?
>>> laptop, smart watch

---



zomato