Week | Lecture | Lab / Tutorial
--- | ---| ---
 1 | Visual Analytics; Tools for Data Exploration | Intro to R and to Tableau
 2 | History of Data visualisation; Visualisation design methodology | Five design sheet visualisation design methdology
 3 | Visualisation of tabular data | Advanced graphics with R
 4 | Analysis of trends & patterns in tabular data | Interactive graphics with R
 5 | Data maps; Tools for creating data maps | Data maps with R
 6 | Spatial analytics | Data maps with R (cont) Google Fusion Tables
 7 | Network data analysis & visualisation | Network analysis and visualisation with R; Text analytics and visualisation with R; Network and text analysis with SAS
 8 | Textual data analysis & visualisation | Interim Project presentation
 9 | Human visual system | Introduction to D3
 10 | Visual communication | Design of effective visualisation
 11 | Interactive data visualisation | **UNIT QUIZ**
 12 | Future of DataVis & Tour of SensiLab | Final Project presentations
--- 

### Week 1 - Visual Analytics; Tools for Data Exploration

> Answer the following questions:
>> 1. What are the different uses of data visualisation in data science? Give examples.
>> * 
>> 2. Why do we use data visualisation?
>> * 
>> 3. What is the relationship to traditional statistical, computational analytics?
>> *
>> 4. When should you use statistical/computational analytics and when should you use visualisation?
>> *
>> 5. Can you combine them? How? 
>> *

> Data visualisation used in Data Science for three main purposes 
>> * Data checking and cleaning
>> * Exploration and discovery
>> * Presentation and communication of results

> Data Checking & Cleaning - Check each attribute for obvious errors
>> * Look at some random records.
>> * Determine the number of missing values and invalid values (NaNs), number of special values like 0.
>> * Determine the number of distinct values and whether they really are distinct.
>> * Check formats for datas, that they are in comparable time zones.
>> * Plot latitude and longitude on a map to check they are sensible.
>> * Check text for strange characters or encoding.

> Typical tasks of Exploration and Discovery are 
>> * Search for elements that satisfy certain properties, if they exist. This might be locating a known data point, filtering the data, or finding outliers.
>> * Identify the properties of a single data item.
>> * Compare or rank elements.
>> * Visually identify patterns in some subset of elements. Examples include trends, correlations, clusters or categories.
>> * Calculate derived properties not originally in the data. These may be data transformations, data aggregations or may be statistical properties such as regression lines or clusters.

> The aim of Visual Analytics is to detect the expected and discover the unexpected.

> Meaning of mean, median and quartiles
>> * mean -> The mean of a data set is the **average** of all the data values
>> * median -> The median of a data set is the value in the middle when the data items are arranged in ascending order.
>>> * For odd number of observations: the median is the middle value
>>> * For even number of observations: the median is the average of the middle two values.
>> * quartiles -> Quartiles are specific percentiles.
>>> * First Quartile = 25th Percentile
>>> * Second Quartile = 50th Percentile = Median
>>> * Third Quartile = 75th Percentile

** Summary
> Visualisation is used for three important purposes in data science:
>> 1. initial data checking and cleaning.
>> 2. exploration and discovery.
>> 3. presentation and communication of results.

> Visual analytics is the name given to the combination of interactive visualisation with statistics, data mining and other kinds of analytics.

 **Alexandra**
> Visual analytics - the combination of visulaisation with statistics, data mining and other kinds of computational analytics.

> The original focus of visual analytics was on helping security analysts and emergency response services but it is now widely used in business intelligence and sciences for data analysis.

> In 1973 the statistician Francis Anscombe constructed four data sets to show the importance of graphing data and also the effect of outliers on commonly used summary statistics. These sets are called the Anscombe Quartet.

---

### Week 2 -  History of Data visualisation; Visualisation design methodology 

> Four reasons that data visualisation rises
>> 1. Improved technolgy for producing and presenting graphics.
>> 2. Changes in societal needs and attitudes to graphics.
>> 3. Availability of data.
>> 4. Invention of graphical notations and interaction techniques.

> * **may** is introduced by Jodocus Hondius from 1607 showing the distribution of relitions
> * **Chart of Biography** is introduced by Joseph Priestly in 1769.

> * **line graph, bar chart and pie chart** were invented by William Playfair in 1786

---

### Week 3 - Visualisation of tabular data 

> 

---

### Week 4 - Analysis of trends & patterns in tabular data 

> 

---

### Week 5 - Data maps; Tools for creating data maps

>

---

### Week 6 - Spatial analytics

>

---

### Week 7 - Network data analysis & visualisation

>

---

### Week 8 - Textual data analysis & visualisation

>

---

### Week 9 - Human visual system 

>

---

### Week 10 - Visual communication

>

---

### Week 11 - Interactive data visualisation

>

---

### Week 12 - Future of DataVis & Tour of SensiLab

>

---



