Someone asserts that using public resources to support the arts is unjustifiable in a society where some people go without food, jobs, and basic survival skills. **It might be tempting to agree with the notion on the basis that art is not a fundamental human need. However**, the notion overlooks certain economic and other societal benefits that accure when government assumes an active role in supporting the arts.

There are two compelling arguments that public support for the arts is desirable, whether or not unemplayment and hunger have been eliminated, **One such argument is that** by allocating public resources to the arts we actually help to solve these social problems. **Consider** Canada's film industry, which is heavily subsidised by the Canadian government, and which provides countless jobs for film-industry workers as a result. This incentive has sparked a boon for the Canadian economy, **Thereby** stimulating job growth and wealth that can be applied toward education, job training, and social programs. 

**A second argument has to do with the function and ultimate objectives of art.** Art serves to lift the human spirit and to put us more in touch with our feelings, foibles, and fate-**in short**, with our own humanity. With a heightened sensitivity to the human condition, we become more others-oriented, less-centred, more giving of ourselves. **In other words**, we become a more charitable society-more willing to give to those less fortunate than ourselves in the ways with which someone is concerned.

**In sum**, public resources allocated to the arts create jobs for artists and others whose livelihood depends on a vibrant,rich culture-just the sort of culture that breeds charitable concern for the hungry, the helpless, and the hapless.

`total: 287 words`